OSDOCS-5773: Adding and updating example oc-mirror image set configs (#60093)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oc-mirror-image-set-config-examples.adoc

The following `ImageSetConfiguration` file examples show the configuration for various mirroring use cases.

// Moved to first; unchanged
[discrete]
[id="oc-mirror-image-set-examples-shortest-upgrade-path_{context}"]
== Use case: Including the shortest {product-title} upgrade path

> The following `ImageSetConfiguration` file uses a local storage backend and includes all {product-title} versions along the shortest upgrade path from the minimum version of `4.11.37` to the maximum version of `4.12.15`.

Reviewer: when use the shortpath , will not contain all the version , only contain the minimum and maximum , I think the description here is a little confused .

Author: I thought that sometimes there were required stops along the path to upgrading, that might require versions in between the minimum an the maximum versions specified. @sherine-k or @aguidirh Can you confirm, and see if we need to make any adjustments to the wording here?

Reviewer 2: I'm not a big expert on cincinatti graphs, but from the [tests](https://github.com/openshift/oc-mirror/blob/2445f2cf88ee364085dfdb618994c2f99316ed67/pkg/cli/mirror/release_test.go#L143), I could see that shortestPath is not necessarily always just the 2 versions min and max.

Reviewer: @bergerhoffer  @sherine-k Got you , thanks .

.Example `ImageSetConfiguration` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: mirror.openshift.io/v1alpha2
kind: ImageSetConfiguration
storageConfig:
  local:
    path: /home/user/metadata
mirror:
  platform:
    channels:

>       - name: stable-4.10

Reviewer: in the "stable-4.10" channel don't have the version 4.11.37. so the imageseconfig is not working . we could change to 'stable-4.12'

Author: Thanks, have updated to stable-4.12

On every invocation of oc-mirror with this image set configuration, the latest release of the `stable-4.10` channel is evaluated, so running oc-mirror at regular intervals ensures that you automatically receive the latest releases of {product-title} images.

.Example `ImageSetConfiguration` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: mirror.openshift.io/v1alpha2
kind: ImageSetConfiguration
storageConfig:
  registry:
    imageURL: example.com/mirror/oc-mirror-metadata
    skipTLS: false
mirror:
  platform:
    channels:
      - name: stable-4.10
        minVersion: 4.10.10
----

// Updated:
// - Added a note below about the maxVersion
// - Added a note about not necessarily getting all versions in the range
[discrete]
[id="oc-mirror-image-set-examples-operator-versions_{context}"]
== Use case: Including Operator versions from a minimum to the latest

The following `ImageSetConfiguration` file uses a local storage backend and includes only the Red Hat Advanced Cluster Security for Kubernetes Operator, versions starting at 3.68.0 and later in the `latest` channel.

[NOTE]
====
When you specify a minimum or maximum version range, you might not receive all Operator versions in that range.

> By default, oc-mirror excludes any versions that are marked skipped or replaced in the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) specification. Operator versions that are skipped might be affected by a CVE or contain bugs and a newer version should be used instead. For more information on skipped and replaced versions, see link:https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/concepts/olm-architecture/operator-catalog/creating-an-update-graph/[Creating an update graph with OLM].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, oc-mirror excludes any versions that are marked "skipped" or "replaced" in the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM) specification. Operator versions that are skipped might be affected by a CVE or contain bugs. Use a newer version instead. For more information on skipped and replaced versions, see link:https://olm.operatorframework.io/docs/concepts/olm-architecture/operator-catalog/creating-an-update-graph/[Creating an update graph with OLM].
```

Reviewer 3: Not sure if quotation marks or backticks would be more appropriate but I feel setting off "skipped" and "replaced" would help readability.

Author: Hmm yeah this one is tough because technically it's not actually the skipped/replaced versions that are marked, it's a newer version that is marked `replaces` or `skips` or `skipRange`. Maybe I'll say something like "....any versions that are skipped or replaced by a newer version..." since it's not really true that the old version is marked. @sherine-k let me know if you have any objections to this updated wording

            minVersion: 3.68.0

> ----

Reviewer: this `ImageSetConfiguration` file is not working , when mirror the catalog, we must include the default channel , for example `rhacs-operator` the default channel is table , so the imagesetconfigure should like : 
apiVersion: mirror.openshift.io/v1alpha2
kind: ImageSetConfiguration
storageConfig:
  local:
    path: /home/user/metadata
mirror:
  operators:
    - catalog: registry.redhat.io/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.13
      packages:
        - name: rhacs-operator
          channels:
            - name: stable
            - name: latest
              minVersion: 3.74.1

Reviewer: I saw we have example for "Use case: Including the default Operator channel" , I think we could remove this part , this example is incorrect.

Author: So for now I have just updated to add "stable" to the list here.

Will let @sherine-k and @aguidirh weigh in on whether we should remove this example completely instead (in favor of the new default operator channel example).

Reviewer 2: How about keeping it simple, and using channel stable in this example. Available versions in stable version are:
```
 ./bin/oc-mirror list operators --catalog=registry.redhat.io/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.13 --package=rhacs-operato
r --channel=stable
VERSIONS
4.0.0
4.0.1
4.0.2
```

storageConfig:
  registry:
    imageURL: example.com/mirror/oc-mirror-metadata
    skipTLS: false
mirror:
  operators:
  - catalog: registry.redhat.io/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.13
    packages:
    - name: elasticsearch-operator
      channels:
      - name: stable-5.7
      - name: stable
----

// New example; Entire catalog; all versions
[discrete]
[id="oc-mirror-image-set-examples-entire-catalog-full_{context}"]
== Use case: Including an entire catalog (all versions)

The following `ImageSetConfiguration` file sets the `mirror.operators.full` field to `true` to include all versions for an entire Operator catalog.

.Example `ImageSetConfiguration` file
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: mirror.openshift.io/v1alpha2
kind: ImageSetConfiguration
storageConfig:
  registry:
    imageURL: example.com/mirror/oc-mirror-metadata
    skipTLS: false
mirror:
  operators:
    - catalog: registry.redhat.io/redhat/redhat-operator-index:v4.13
      full: true
----

// New example; Entire catalog; heads only
// - Included 'targetCatalog' in example
[discrete]
[id="oc-mirror-image-set-examples-entire-catalog-heads_{context}"]
== Use case: Including an entire catalog (channel heads only)

> The following `ImageSetConfiguration` file includes the channels heads for an entire Operator catalog.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following `ImageSetConfiguration` file includes the channel heads for an entire Operator catalog.
```

Author: Good catch, thanks!

By default, for each Operator in the catalog, oc-mirror includes the latest Operator version (channel head) from the default channel. If you want to mirror all Operator versions, and not just the channel heads, you must set the `mirror.operators.full` field to `true`.

> This example also uses the `targetCatalog` field to specify an alternative namespace and name to mirror the catalog as.

Reviewer 3: This wording is a little awkward; maybe "as" can be removed, if it wouldn't change the meaning?

Author: I see what you mean, but I think it would change the meaning to remove it. This wording is used elsewhere in the docs already. I'll make a note to see if I can find a better wording and if I can, I'll update everywhere.

    additionalImages:
    - name: registry.redhat.io/ubi9/ubi:latest
----

// TODO: New example: Use case: default channel has to be included
// ^ can this one just be incorporated into an existing example?

// TODO: New example: Use case: full for entire package

// New example; Entire catalog; heads only
// - Included 'targetCatalog' in example
[discrete]
[id="oc-mirror-image-set-examples-entire-catalog_{context}"]
== Use case: Including an entire catalog (channel heads only)

The following `ImageSetConfiguration` file uses a registry storage backend and includes an entire Operator catalog.

> By default, only versions that are required in order to upgrade to the channel head are included. Any Operator versions that are marked to replace or skip are not included. If you want to mirror all Operator versions, and not just the channel heads, you must set the `mirror.operators.full` field to `true`.

Author: @sherine-k okay thanks. I kept the part about using full if needed - let me know if that works. 

This is what it looks like now if that works:

```
For each Operator in the catalog, oc-mirror includes the latest Operator version (channel head) from the default channel. If you want to mirror all Operator versions, and not just the channel heads, you must set the `mirror.operators.full` field to `true`.
```

Diff: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/compare/4b2f3606c97e5fc763f7aa7dfc66546c6e289f59..cfe3fd8646b2f8714f3f57140d275e88108d8286
